Part 1: Download and Install Wireshark
Wireshark has become the industry standard packet-sniffer program used by network engineers. This open source software is available for many different operating systems, including Windows, Mac, and Linux.

If Wireshark is already installed on your PC, you can skip Part 1 and go directly to Part 2. If Wireshark is not installed on your PC, check with your instructor about your academy’s software download policy.

Step 1: Download Wireshark.
a.     Wireshark can be downloaded from www.wireshark.org.

b.     Click Download.

c.     Choose the software version you need based on your PC’s architecture and operating system. For instance, if you have a 64-bit PC running Windows, choose Windows Installer (64-bit).

d.     After making the selection, the download should start. Click Save File if prompted. The location of the downloaded file depends on the browser and operating system that you use. For Windows users, the default location is the Downloads folder.

Step 2: Install Wireshark.
a.     The downloaded file is named Wireshark-win64-x.x.x.exe, where x represents the version number. Double-click the file to start the installation process.

b.     Respond to any security messages that may display on your screen. If you already have a copy of Wireshark on your PC, you maybe prompted to uninstall the old version before installing the new version. It is recommended that you remove the old version of Wireshark prior to installing another version. Click Yes to uninstall the previous version of Wireshark.

c.     If this is the first time to install Wireshark, or after you have completed the uninstall process, you will navigate to the Wireshark Setup wizard. Click Next.

d.     Continue advancing through the installation process. Click I Agree when the License Agreement window displays.

e.     Keep the default settings on the Choose Components window and click Next.

f.      Choose your desired shortcut options and click Next.

g.     You can change the installation location of Wireshark, but unless you have limited disk space, it is recommended that you keep the default location.

h.     To capture live network data, Npcap must be installed on your PC. If your installed version of Npcap is older than the version that comes with Wireshark, it is recommended that you allow the newer version to be installed by clicking the Install Npcap x.x.x (version number) check box. Click Next.

i.      A separate window opens up for Npcap Setup. Click I Agree to in the Npcap License Agreement window. In the Installation Options window, leave all the checkboxes unselected and click Install to install Npcap. Click Next when finished. Click Finish to close the wizard.

j.      The installation of USBPcap is not necessary for this course. It is only required if you are planning to capture USB traffic. Click Install to start the installation.

Note: Because USBPcap is experimental, make sure that you have created a system restore point before the installation of USBPcap.

k.     Wireshark starts installing its files and a separate window displays with the status of the installation. Click Next when the installation is complete.

l.      Click Finish to complete the Wireshark install process. If the installation process is stalled, verify that the Npcap installation is finished. Click Next to continue.

m.   Reboot the PC to finish the installation.
